feat: 5.0 enteprise edition, autosubscribe with aid from external data source (#65)
emqx/eip: active/0021-auto-subscribe.md

# EMQX Auto Subscribe

## Changelog

* 2022-07-06: @DDD

## Abstract

With Auto Subscription enabled, after a client is successfully connected to EMQX, it may not need to send SUBSCRIBE requests to EMQX, because EMQX will complete the pre-defined subscriptions for the client.

Prior to version 5, this feature is also known as "proxy subscription".

## Motivation

> 

Reviewer: below is a wishing list from earlier versions which motivates this new design

Author: What I mean is that the configuration is not in array form and will determine which database the current configuration is based on the type.

1. Missing subscription option (rh rap nl) for MQTT v5 version in table structure.
2. Lack of support for HTTP services.
3. Relies on the rules engine, which essentially acts as a hook.
4. Does not support placeholders, does not support variables, that is, the database is stored topics only.
5. The table structure is fixed and immutable. Only `clientid` is supported as primary key.

> ## Require

Reviewer 2: I don't think so.

1. Support MQTT v5 sub options.

> 2. Get subscription from HTTP service.

Reviewer: do we really want to support this with an HTTP backend ?

Reviewer 2: I would prefer a set of mgmt api for subscription instead of supporting 3rd parity http backend.

3. Detach from the rule engine and provide service capability separately.
4. Add support for placeholders, i.e. subscription rules can be stored in the database.
5. Support using username as query condition, analogous to authz authn (need to discuss).

## Design

> 1. Open source version of the subscription rules as a benchmark, the enterprise version of more than one way to get all the subscription rules. That is, the information obtained can be mapped one by one to the open source proxy subscription rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open source version of the subscription rules as a base, the enterprise version is to provide more than one way to get all the subscription rules. That is, the information obtained from an external data store can be mapped to the open source version subscription rules.
```

3. Only one way to get the subscription is supported, that is, including the open source version of the subscription rules, there can only be one way to get the subscription. Configure more than one, only the first one in the configuration file takes effect, and the rest are not available in the log. That is, there is no chain, the only one resource.
4. Compatible with the 4.x version of the data structure. The user only need to migrate the business from the rules engine to the auto-subscribe, without changing the original database structure. 4.x, the data missing MQTT v5 subscription options information, using the default value in the open source auto-subscribe rules.
5. Database storage of topics support placeholders. Which means they are auto-subscribe rules. Device business is generally abstracted, may be classified according to the device. And topics may need to carry device information. For example: `service/1/${clientid}` `service/2/${username}` 
6. Support using device information query, username & clientid (need to discuss).

> 7. Use HTTP service to get the subscription, push the device information, the response value is the json structure data which conforms to the auto-subscribe rules.

Reviewer: lower priority ?
